README.md, before:

![Fismo](docs/images/fismo-logo.png)
# The Finite State Machine Protocol for EVM Blockchains
Fismo Machines are a way of simulating processes, branching narratives, maps of places, or nearly any stateful thing you can imagine.

![Fismo](docs/images/fismo-machine.png)

_Yo dawg, we heard you like machines, so we put this machine in our state machine docs._ It represents the machines you will install in our machine. Incidentally, It was created by a machine using [Midjourney](https://twitter.com/midjourney).

## 📖 [Documentation](https://docs.fismo.xyz)
## 📋 Status
### [![Node.js CI](https://github.com/cliffhall/Fismo/actions/workflows/node.js.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/cliffhall/Fismo/actions/workflows/node.js.yml) 🔬 ![92%](https://progress-bar.dev/92/?title=Progress&width=100&color=0c0c0c)

Done or in progress are:
- ✅ Science! a functional [Deterministic Selector Proxy](docs/whitepaper.md#deterministic-selector-proxy) implementation
- ✅ A robust [Finite State Machine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Finite-state_machine) protocol
- ✅ Minimal clones for cheap deployments (~$50 vs ~$3000)!!!
- ✅ Initialization and access of machine-specific storage slots
- ✅ Clear and complete interface documentation and inline code comments
- ✅ Separation of concerns into inheritance tree for easy comprehension and maintenance
- ✅ Shared domain model for contract structures, enums, events, & constants
- ✅ Domain model expressed in JS for use in deployment and testing
- ✅ Domain model unit tests
- ✅ Shared Script modules for reuse in both deployment and testing
- ✅ Contract unit tests
- ✅ Working examples
- ✅ Example machine tests (multi-step operation of machine examples)
- ✅ CI build and test with Github Actions
- ✅ Contract interfaces documentation
- ✅ Developer setup and tasks documentation
- ✅ Developer environment configuration template
- ✅ High level architecture documentation
- ✅ Contextually filter actions on guard contracts
- ✅ Enable self-targeting transitions to inspect the action
- ✅ Optimize contract size
- ✅ Publish [NPM package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/fismo) with utilities and domain model for browser + node
- ✅ Publish documentation to [Fismo website](https://fismo.xyz)
- 👉 Deploy to testnets, mainnet, sidechains
- 👉 Moar examples!
- 👉 Write "How to create, install, and operate machines on Fismo" doc

##  [![Created by Futurescale](docs/images/created-by.png)](https://futurescale.com)

Commit message:

Added basic, cloneable Operator contract
* This will make a Fismo deployment it as cheap as possible, cloning Fismo and then cloning the standard Operator, paired to the Fismo clone.

* The standard Operator contract does allows anyone to interact with its Fismo instance.

* In deploy-and-verify-all.js
  - import deployOperator
  - deploy Operator.sol
  - update log output to indicate when the standard operator

* In deploy-example.js
  - added basicOperator argument
  - if basicOperator is not null and the example does not list an operator contract, the standard operator is used
  - if basicOperator is null and the example does not specify an operator contract, the standard operator is deployed and used
  - if example specifies an operator contract, it is deployed and used

* Added deploy-operator.js

* In FismoTest.js,
  - removed duplicate assignment

* In docs/index.md,
  - changed 'world' to 'map or process'

* In lab-examples.js,
  - removed operator contract from StopWatch and LockableDoor examples

* In LockableDoorTest.js,
  - added null argument for basicOperator in call to deployExample
  - Changed context description to "Machine-specific Tests"

* Added Operator.sol,
  - basic, cloneable operator
  - can't clone a clone
  - is forever bound to a specific Fismo instance

* Added OperatorTest.js,
  - tests basic Operator contract directly as a standalone contract and as a cloned instance

* Updated README.md

* In report-verify.js,
  - updated log output to align text columns (emoticon widths are variable?)

* Removed StopWatchOperator.sol and LockableDoorOperator.sol

README.md, after:

![Fismo](docs/images/fismo-logo.png)
# The Finite State Machine Protocol for EVM Blockchains
Fismo Machines are a way of simulating processes, branching narratives, maps of places, or nearly any stateful thing you can imagine.

![Fismo](docs/images/fismo-machine.png)

_Yo dawg, we heard you like machines, so we put this machine in our state machine docs._ It represents the machines you will install in your instance of our machine. Incidentally, It was created by a machine using [Midjourney](https://twitter.com/midjourney).

## 📖 [Documentation](https://docs.fismo.xyz)
## 📋 Status
### [![Node.js CI](https://github.com/cliffhall/Fismo/actions/workflows/node.js.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/cliffhall/Fismo/actions/workflows/node.js.yml) 🔬 ![92%](https://progress-bar.dev/92/?title=Progress&width=100&color=0c0c0c)

Done or in progress are:
- ✅ Science! a functional [Deterministic Selector Proxy](docs/whitepaper.md#deterministic-selector-proxy) implementation
- ✅ A robust [Finite State Machine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Finite-state_machine) protocol
- ✅ Minimal clones of Fismo for cheap deployments (~$45 vs ~$2300)!!!
- ✅ Minimal clones of basic Operator for cheap deployments (~$45 vs ~$350)!!!

- ✅ Initialization and access of machine-specific storage slots
- ✅ Clear and complete interface documentation and inline code comments
- ✅ Separation of concerns into inheritance tree for easy comprehension and maintenance
- ✅ Shared domain model for contract structures, enums, events, & constants
- ✅ Domain model expressed in JS for use in deployment and testing
- ✅ Domain model unit tests
- ✅ Shared Script modules for reuse in both deployment and testing
- ✅ Contract unit tests
- ✅ Working examples
- ✅ Example machine tests (multi-step operation of machine examples)
- ✅ CI build and test with Github Actions
- ✅ Contract interfaces documentation
- ✅ Developer setup and tasks documentation
- ✅ Developer environment configuration template
- ✅ High level architecture documentation
- ✅ Contextually filter actions on guard contracts
- ✅ Enable self-targeting transitions to inspect the action
- ✅ Optimize contract size
- ✅ Publish [NPM package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/fismo) with utilities and domain model for browser + node
- ✅ Publish documentation to [Fismo website](https://fismo.xyz)
- 👉 Deploy to testnets, mainnet, sidechains
- 👉 Moar examples!
- 👉 Write "How to create, install, and operate machines on Fismo" doc

##  [![Created by Futurescale](docs/images/created-by.png)](https://futurescale.com)
